[Music]
okay now gather around for a story once
upon a time in a town far far away there
lived a boy his parents gave him a shiny
new smartphone for his birthday he loved
it so much that he spent all his time
with it then Friday the 13th came upon
them although he hadn't run his phone
battery down completely the boy decided
to charge it anyways and accidentally
left it plugged in overnight the gadget
exploded and there was a power outage so
massive that it took years for the whole
town to recover from it sounds like
something terrifyingly possible
doesn't it if so you must be one of the
many people who still believe the most
common gadget charging myths but we're
gonna change all of that and make you
super tech savvy in no time
[Music]
myth number one charging your phone
overnight will kill it our first popular
misconception goes like this if you
leave your gadget plugged in overnight
it'll go beyond the 100% charge point
which in turn will reduce your phone's
battery life this myth like most other
myths out there is slightly based on
reality way back in the day when
dinosaurs walked the earth and phones
had black-and-white screens and weighed
about as much as a brick hey hey I had
one of those their lithium-ion batteries
were prone to overheating that happened
when the phone was on the charger for
too long and could indeed damage the
battery or even make the phone explode
thankfully gadgets have evolved over
time I mean they're called smart now for
a reason unlike me when I walk into the
all-you-can-eat buffet they know their
limits and won't take any more than they
need from their electrical feeder modern
lithium-ion batteries have built-in
controllers to prevent any possible
damage they stop charging when the
battery is 100% full so you really have
no reason to fear fire or phone damage
if your phone does get too warm while
charging it could be a cause for concern
you'd be totally justified taking it
back to the cellar because that's not
normal better yet do some research
online and study up on reviews from
other users to see which models tend to
overheat an unsuitable phone case can
also contribute to overheating so take
the cover off if you plan on letting
your gadget charge overnight
[Music]
myth number two you can only charge your
phone when you have a low battery you
have to drop it down to zero to charge
it to a hundred liter well that's
another common myth that's based on a
true but ancient story older nickel
cadmium or nickel metal hydride
batteries needed a full discharge to be
able to go back to their maximum
capacity and not forget what they're
capable of modern lithium-ion batteries
are nothing like that in fact they have
a limited number of recharge cycles an
iPhone for instance has about five
hundred one cycle is one full charge
when the battery goes from zero to 100%
if you charge your gadget say from 90 to
100% then you've used only 1/10 of a
cycle so you basically extend the number
of cycles still available to you by 10
times without losing battery life not to
waste one full charging cycle give your
phone some electrical juice several
times throughout the day if possible
experts at battery university yep it
exists online that is they promise that
your battery will serve you longer and
more effectively if you keep it at 40 to
80% they used to recommend sucking your
gadget dry every now and then but not
anymore
you see most smart phones today have
smart batteries that can adjust
themselves thanks to a built-in
calibration tool and what's so great
about calibration well it's about
readjusting your battery back to its
stop condition and it's usually needed
when your device starts acting weird
like when it's losing charge faster or
shutting off altogether once it hits
about 70 percent battery life in those
cases though you might still need to
calibrate it manually
myth number three
you shouldn't constantly keep your
charger plugged in the wall well let's
take a survey hit that thumbs up button
if you'd like to have at least one
charger constantly hanging out of the
wall always ready to feed your fault as
for me
I have one in each room of my house who
wants to drag their charger from the
living room to the bedroom every evening
anyway according to safety rules
Chargers must be removed from outlets
immediately after each use otherwise if
your charger is plugged in and a power
surge happens on your grid it might
catch on fire at least that's what they
say
pretty scary stuff right but really
these types of situations are extremely
rare especially in the city more and
more people are just treating this
warning the same way they do the good
old safe removal of a flash drive we
know about it but we don't actually do
it however there are four major
exceptions here and if at least one of
them is true for you then you should
never ever leave your charger in the
outlet your house has no lightning
protection system or there are frequent
voltage fluctuations or power outages
you have pets that roam freely around
the house it's obviously better if the
charger isn't plugged in if your furry
friends decide to chew on the cord we
don't really want to see the kitty join
the electrical light parade now do we do
we you live in an apartment building and
your upstairs neighbors often flood your
apartment or you your charger gets hot
or noisy even when it's not plugged into
your gadget in this case just get a new
charger so you won't have to get a new
house again if none of these points
applies to you then it's totally your
choice whether or not you'll leave your
charger plugged into the wall it won't
damage the charger itself or run your
electric bill up sky-high
myth number four it's super dangerous to
use your phone while it's charging well
don't even touch your phone while it's
charging this is somewhat of an urban
legend started by the concerned parents
of the first cellphone using kids who
spread it on to their children once they
grew up as for those who dared to ignore
this warning they faced the threat of
fire explosion and even electrocution
there actually have been cases of such
incidents but it wasn't the phone to
blame it was knockoff chargers but we'll
get more into that here in a second
just remember that as long as you're
using a legit device and charger or an
official replacement from the
manufacturer there's no risk of using a
plugged in phone
[Music]
myth number five all chargers are the
same
sorry but the reality is that not all
Chargers are created equal when your
real charger that came with a phone gets
damaged or lost you'll obviously try to
find a new one since you probably spend
enough money on the phone itself you
most likely will be looking for more
affordable options but if you decide to
get a fake or uncertified charger don't
be surprised when it doesn't work as
fast as the original or makes your
battery barely last an hour
worst case scenario it could even melt
into the wall if you can't afford
official replacements from the
manufacturer at least go for credible
ones from more or less famous brands
myth number 6 turning off your phone
makes no difference to the battery I'm
sure a lot of you should or at the
thought of going off the grid plus why
shut your phone completely off when you
can just charge it well take it from an
actual Apple Genius from the Genius Bar
giving your phone a break and turning it
off at least once a week will help
conserve its battery over time ideally
you have to do it more frequently than
that the same goes for Android devices
as well rebooting can work its magic too
when it comes to making your phone more
durable
[Music]
myth number seven
keeping your laptop constantly plugged
in will damage it
[Music]
there is one myth that exists for both
smartphones and laptops people say that
keeping them constantly on the charger
is really bad for the battery however
the fact is that modern power circuits
and laptops block battery charging when
it's full so it's not in your best
interest to waste its full recharging
cycles as a preventative measure
experts recommend training the battery
entirely about once a month your laptop
is much more likely to break down due to
overheating or using it in inappropriate
conditions and not because of a
permanently connected charger so rest
assured that modern technologies have
reached that stage where you don't have
to worry about the charger being left in
the outlet besides our TV's lamps and
even power guzzling kitchen appliances
stay plugged in all day yet nobody's
paranoid about the fridge blowing up why
should we uh-oh so which of these myths
did you personally believe tell us in
the comments below don't forget to give
us a like and click subscribe to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]